docs/DEV_GUIDE.md, before:

# Developer Guide

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm
- MongoDB reachable by `MONGODB_URI`

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

2. Create `.env` from `.env.example` and set values:

- `MONGODB_URI`
- `MONGODB_DB_NAME`
- `USE_MONGO_PERSISTENCE` (server flag, default true unless set to `false`)
- `VITE_USE_MONGO_PERSISTENCE` (frontend flag, default true unless set to `false`)
- `VITE_API_BASE_URL` (optional)

## Run Locally

- Frontend only:

```bash
npm run dev
```

- API server only:

```bash
npm run dev:server
```

- Frontend + API together:

```bash
npm run dev:all
```

## Build / Lint / Test

```bash
npm run build
npm run lint
npm run test
npm run test:run
```

## Utility Scripts

```bash
npm run check:invariants
npm run seed:emotion
npm run seed:fitness
```

## Server Notes

- Server entry: `src/server/index.ts`
- Env loader: `src/server/config/env.ts`
- Mongo feature assertion: `src/server/config/index.ts`

## Troubleshooting

- If API calls fail, check `MONGODB_URI` and that Mongo is running.
- If frontend cannot reach backend, verify `VITE_API_BASE_URL` and CORS behavior in `src/server/index.ts`.
- If DayKey errors appear, validate timezone/dayKey inputs against `src/domain/time/dayKey.ts` and `src/server/domain/canonicalValidators.ts`.

Commit message:

chore: finalize rollback and stabilize local dev connectivity
- document MongoDB Atlas 500 troubleshooting in DEV_GUIDE (Node 20 guidance, Atlas IP whitelist, backend run checks)

- simplify Layout dev controls by removing runtime mode toggle buttons and keeping demo seed/reset actions only when demo mode is active

- harden Mongo client options with autoSelectFamily=false to mitigate Atlas TLS family-selection issues

- keep previously reverted Main Dashboard work reverted while preserving existing local edits

docs/DEV_GUIDE.md, after:

# Developer Guide

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm
- MongoDB reachable by `MONGODB_URI`

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

2. Create `.env` from `.env.example` and set values:

- `MONGODB_URI`
- `MONGODB_DB_NAME`
- `USE_MONGO_PERSISTENCE` (server flag, default true unless set to `false`)
- `VITE_USE_MONGO_PERSISTENCE` (frontend flag, default true unless set to `false`)
- `VITE_API_BASE_URL` (optional)

## Run Locally

- Frontend only:

```bash
npm run dev
```

- API server only:

```bash
npm run dev:server
```

- Frontend + API together:

```bash
npm run dev:all
```

## Build / Lint / Test

```bash
npm run build
npm run lint
npm run test
npm run test:run
```

## Utility Scripts

```bash
npm run check:invariants
npm run seed:emotion
npm run seed:fitness
```

## Server Notes

- Server entry: `src/server/index.ts`
- Env loader: `src/server/config/env.ts`
- Mongo feature assertion: `src/server/config/index.ts`

## Troubleshooting

### 500 errors on API endpoints (categories, habits, routines, etc.)

These usually indicate the backend cannot connect to MongoDB. Common causes:

1. **SSL/TLS "tlsv1 alert internal error" with MongoDB Atlas**  
   Node.js 24+ uses newer OpenSSL that can fail with Atlas. **Use Node.js 20 LTS**:
   ```bash
   nvm use 20   # or: brew install node@20
   ```

2. **MongoDB not reachable**  
   - Ensure `MONGODB_URI` and `MONGODB_DB_NAME` are set in `.env`
   - For Atlas: whitelist your IP in Network Access (or use `0.0.0.0/0` for local dev)
   - Get the connection string from Atlas: Connect → Drivers → Node.js

3. **Backend not running**  
   Run both frontend and backend: `npm run dev:all`

### Other issues

- If frontend cannot reach backend, verify `VITE_API_BASE_URL` and CORS in `src/server/index.ts`
- If DayKey errors appear, validate against `src/domain/time/dayKey.ts` and `src/server/domain/canonicalValidators.ts`
